	   SGMLS.PM: A PERL5 CLASS LIBRARY FOR USE WITH THE
		       SGMLS AND NSGMLS PARSERS

			     Version 1.03ii


			   David Megginson,
			 University of Ottawa


[This is the fourth public release.  See "CHANGES", below, for a
summary of the most important changes since version 1.02.  For
detailed changes, see ChangeLog and DOC/ChangeLog; for known bugs, see
BUGS.]


This distribution contains SGMLS.pm, a perl5 class library for parsing
the output from James Clark's SGMLS and NSGMLS parsers.  This is a
free package, but it is _not_ Public-Domain software -- please see the
file COPYING in this directory for the terms of use.

Full documentation is available in SGML format the DOC directory, and
in Postscript, LaTeX, and HTML format in the various subdirectories of
the DOC directory.  Documentation in POD format is also included
within each of the modules, and once they are installed, you can view
them with perldoc (SGMLS, SGMLS::Ouptut, or SGMLS::Refs) -- there is
no POD documentation in sgmlspl yet.

Take a look in the elisp/ subdirectory for a special package for Gnu
Emacs -- it will allow you to run (n)sgmls and sgmlspl from within an
Emacs buffer containing an SGML file, displaying the output (LaTeX,
for example) in another Emacs buffer.

I have included a Unix Makefile for installing the package on Unix and
Unix-like systems.  Make any necessary changes at the top of the
Makefile, then type

  make install

to install the perl5 scripts on your system.  If you want to test the
installation, change to the DOC subdirectory, read the comments at the
top of the make file there, then type

  make clean; make all

to regenerate the LaTeX and HTML documentation using the scripts which
you have just installed (you will have to have the SGMLS or NSGMLS
parser, the Docbook 2.2.1 DTD and SGML declaration, and the ISOpub and
ISOnum entity sets available on your system -- copies are included in
the DOC/Extras subdirectory).  You may also type

  make dvi

or

  make ps

to produce DVI or Postscript versions of the documentation for
printing.


** nb: Effective with v.1.02, SGMLS.pm supports the new output from
NSGMLS 0.4.13 with the -h option.


CHANGES

There have been some major changes since version 1.02.  File handles
passed as arguments to SGMLS::new should be qualified in the correct
package now.  The Output.pm module has been moved, so you should now
type

  use SGMLS::Output;

instead of

  use Output;

in all of your scripts.  There is also a new package, SGMLS::Refs, to
maintain a database of forward references from one processing pass to
another, like the LaTeX .aux files.  Once you have installed SGMLS.pm,
you can type

  perldoc SGMLS::Refs

at the shell prompt for more information, or you can read the new
section in the SGML documentation for sgmlspl.  All of the
documentation for this package is available online through my home
page, listed below.

As mentioned above, there is also a convenient package for Gnu Emacs
19 in the elisp/ directory.


Enjoy!

David Megginson


EMAIL: dmeggins@aix1.uottawa.ca
WWW: http://www.uottawa.ca/~dmeggins
Canada Post: Department of English,
             University of Ottawa,
             Ottawa, CANADA

